# W3C call 09/11/2018

## Participants

- Alois Reitbauer
- Philippe Le Hégaret (plh)
- Bogdan Drutu
- Sergey Kanzhelev
- Nik Molnar
- Reiley Yang
- Ted Young
- Christoph Neumüller
- Daniel Khan

## Discussion with plh about publishing the working draft

 * Philippe: Nothing has to be finished, the group just needs to decide to publish it
 * Philippe: After that, changes in the spec need to be published (automatically)
 * Philippe: Automatic-publication through travis CI is needed.
 * __Decision: The group unanimously agreed to publish a working draft right now.__

## TPAC

Bogdan: How to become a participant on the official w3c working group?
 * for 

Philippe: there will be possibility to join remotely for the TPAC working group

Philippe: info about how to register for TPAC is in the google doc: https://docs.google.com/document/d/12yecf7L1uibMIGP_YkTRM-KKCZZkluqmYqXxGFHD5J4/edit

Alois: web performance working group
 * alois will reserve a 1 hour slot during TPAC to discuss with that team

Alois: High-Level Agenda for the week
 * monday+tuesday (Workshop): put work into the data format
 * thursday+friday (TPAC): 
   * focus on tracecontext. move it forward. invest in test-cases.
   * continue discussion on "recorded" flag


## Sergey: Change tracking and communication

How do we track changes and how do we communicate changes? how to communicate changes?
 * plh: once we are in CR: it's more important to have it
 * specify list of changes for every new draft
 * not important at the beginning, but becomes more important later on (after CR)


## Sergey: Clarify on size limit (#109)
 * Sergey likes Yuri's suggestion to just declare what "minimum" size must be propagated, but it's allowed to propate more.
 * Set more agressive minimum-limit (250 bytes?). Sergey will send proposal.
 * It's also important to define how to truncate.
 * amqp: might need more agressive limits

## Alois: how to treat partially corrupt headers?
 * Bogdan: there's an issue about it #172
 * Alois: if there is something broken, lets restart the trace.
 * If only tracestate is broken, shall we continue the traceparent?
 * Bogdan: should we make traceparent optional too? sergey/reiley: opens the possibility to use tracestate as baggage. also, versioning is being lost.
   * Alois: broken/missing traceparent should always restart a trace.

## "recorded" flag discussion
 * Was discussed, mostly re-iterated reasoning behind the flag that's already been discussed in #167. Let's try to reach a final decision on it at TPAC.
 * sergey: "reqested" flag is a problem ouside of trust boundaries. 
 * flag is needed in traceparent for performance reasons AND to allow customer to tell service providers whether to collect data for this request or not (as long as service provider is configured to trust the flag). Service providers will likely never try to parse somebody else's `tracestate`.
 * idea of sampling flag that cannot be reset is good, but we do not have enough parties committed to use it this way. 
 * proposal is to remove second bit, remove the mutation rule that doesn't allow to reset this bit to `0`. Basically have a very loosely-defined flag for sampling. `Recorded` is a good name for it.
 * decision: recorded flag is for interop.

